So how can we check if parantheses is balanced?
We can create a stack, scan the expression and
if the scanned element is an opening bracket then push it
into the stack.
So first and second characters here are pushed into the
stack.
And if the scanned element is a closing bracket
then perform pop operation and check
If it matches the last scanned closing bracket
If it is, everything is fine so far. Otherwise parantheses
is is unbalanced.
Here it matches. So it is good we can continue
And the next character is also a closing bracket
So pop from stack and check if it matches and
here it matches.
So again it's all fine and we reached the end
of the expression and nothing is left in the stack
that is all openings were balanced by closing brackets.
So the expression is balanced
Now see another example.
We have opening bracket first. So push it
next we have another opening
So again push
Next we have closing. So pop and check
if it matches and it matches
so scan next character
And again it is a closing bracket.
So perform pop and check
If it matches the scanned symbol but it does not
match.
We have opening curly bracket and closing round bracket so
this expression is unbalanced.